what sucks about it
when I need them he's not here
how does that feel dad that's the crowd
super probably that's probably why it
sucks most
you
alright so Jacob help me understand what
we're talking about today and how I can
be helpful yeah um I guess I'd say my
relationship with my dad isn't the
greatest it's definitely not toxic in
any way I don't think it's okay no not
abusive in any way but we just seem
really disconnected nowadays I don't
I hardly ever talk to him we don't share
a lot of interests in common okay
conversations I do have with him are
like hey can you go do this for me real
quick and I'll be like yeah it's fine
basically then yeah it sounds like you
guys have kind of drifted apart yeah um
it definitely started back when well it
got worse I'd say when my mom passed
away in September of 2018 okay and the
way I yeah the way I described it to my
dad they're like how I felt about it was
on I felt like my mom was like the kind
of like the glue that held me my brother
and my dad together and it was we were
trying to like figure out how to make
that work without her and I just I'm not
really sure at all okay okay yeah so
first of all what do I how would you
like to be addressed
Jake is fine Jake okay because there's
like two A's in there so I was yeah
there's the two ways was a typo and I
just left it brilliant man I know okay
so it sounds like you've you've drifted
apart from your dad and that you're
unhappy with that yeah um I just feel
really disconnected from him and I from
like maybe when I was a kid when I was
in high school and stuff and I was
around him more and my mom was involved
and we did like stuff as a family but I
haven't I haven't done anything with
specifically with my dad in years
okay and it sounds like I think you it
sounds like you've made a very important
observation which is that your mom was
kind of crucial to like keeping you guys
together yeah I think I don't have a
brother - yeah yeah names Joe
okay so Joe I I'm turnin Jake down yeah
hey I just saw the messages he's loud
can you keep talking Jake UH one two
testing 110-meter am I still allowed
noises hey hey man I just saw them on
messages okay are we good
solos training yeah okay how's your
Indian
okay let's try now hello hello testing
one okay is that better Jake can you say
something uh something something one two
can you hear me okay all right are we so
good okay we're good thank you guys very
much I've told my I don't know if you
guys have seen this thing this is a
Boomer device it's called a phone um
it's kind of like a it's sort of like a
DM but like voice only so it's a little
bit different I'm not very familiar but
I think I've heard about it yeah it's
kind of like a Twitter DM but it's like
it's like voice and you have to like you
have to it's like a voice call so it's
it's a weird it's a weird device so
sometimes I ask my mods to use it
because that's how they communicate with
boomers like me and yeah it's like it's
like a mobile discord basically that's
exactly what it is it's like it's a
specific device that's like a mobile
discord okay but and so you were saying
you have a brother
yeah older younger younger he's 16 I'm
21 okay what's his relationship like
with your dad probably the same I would
say from what I noticed anyways um I
presume he lives with your dad yeah do
you guys do yep okay so you guys all
live in the same house mm-hmm so what's
it like at home um
my Joe and I do our own thing you he'll
be downstairs watching basketball or on
his phone or whatever and I'm usually in
my room playing a game or on the discord
nowadays and and when you say your
brother and you do your own thing do you
guys do things together or it's like you
guys are basically roommates instead of
family basically roommates instead of
family okay and what are you guys room
eights instead of family when your mom
was around no I think my mom pushed for
us to do a lot of things together we
took we took trips and like we had like
a movie night and everything okay I feel
like we did over yeah sorry go ahead
no I feel like we just did a lot more
together when she was her own so you use
the word pushed so there's a difference
between her pushing to for y'all to do
things together and y'all just doing
more stuff when she was around true
right what's the difference there I
think she would come up with things for
us to do and we'd do it uh-huh so what's
the so was that an organic process a
natural process or was she pushing I
think it was more organic okay so it's
not like she had to like wrangle you
guys to do it yeah no I don't know I
don't think that because what I'm kind
of implying is that it's possible that
you know the dynamic one is sort of an
active process and one is a passive
process like when she was around we just
used to do more stuff together and the
other is that you know she may have been
someone who like recognized that you
guys that an active influence needed to
be there for y'all to like all interact
in the family manner and if she was able
to see that family dynamic and fulfill
that role within the family which is
usually how things work so we have
different roles that we kind of play
with in the family like there's usually
a patriarch or a matriarch like within
you know like a family
so it may be like a grandfather or like
your uncle is sort of like the de facto
head of the family where if someone has
a problem like they turn to that person
sometimes you know does that make sense
to you yeah so your mom it sounds like
filled the role of none'll so the
question is was she just glue or was she
also like actively recognizing that you
guys are kind of individual people and
that you all need like effort to be
pulled together what do you think
I think it's me I think maybe it was
active to her um I think she saw like
these guys won't do anything together
unless someone bring something up her
like yeah I I think she probably
realized that yeah okay is that
something that you had like thought
about before this conversation um no not
specifically and it wasn't it was
definitely not something I thought about
until she was gone yeah so I think so
let me ask you Jake
so let's say I have a family situation
where you have three people who are
essentially like somewhat independent or
or loners or call it whatever you want
to no judgment and there's one person
who kind of ties people together so like
not even a family situation but I've
been in friends circles where there's
like one person who's kind of the
organizer right and so like they're the
person who's like okay what are we doing
this weekend okay we're gonna plan a
trip here and what happens in that
social dynamic you're smiling I just
thought that's me in my friend group
okay
so okay yeah right so there's the light
bulb good job so tell me what are you
thinking I'm thinking like I'm always
the one that hits up the group chat as
like hey let's go hang out at whoever's
house let's go to get a bite to eat or
whatever that's usually me so when you
are not around what happens
to your friends what happens to your
group they they don't hang out I guess
nobody okay yeah and so well they hang
out with other friend like not in our
group but your group your nuclear it's
not that they be all become antisocial
yeah and it doesn't sound like you your
brother and your dad become antisocial
it's just y'all's group is not gonna
coalesce mm-hmm right that's what I'm
hearing from you yeah and so what what
do you think about that like what does
that mean for your family
well I'm thinking like I've tried to get
us all to do stuff I thought hey it'd be
fun if we like went and saw a movie
every now and again like every month or
something and that's one idea that
sticks out to me and it's it's
frustrating cuz like dad is isn't here
most of the time he's just not in the
house he's out with his friends he's out
he's working and it getting a hold of
him is sometimes difficult how does that
make you feel kind of sucks
maybe well there's like two sides of
that coin cuz like I like being
independent I like being able to do my
own thing without having my dad button
or whatever but I also like having him
around so I can talk to him and try to
plan something something to do and yeah
what sucks about it
you
when I need him he's not here how does
that feel dad that's the crowd survey
probably that's probably why it sucks
most yes yeah as you just when I need
him he's usually not around or he's
about to be busy do you feel guilty for
needing him sometimes I feel like a
bother
sometimes yeah and then if you feel like
you're bothering him what do you do and
how does that how do what filings does
that create for you
what feelings as they create um what
does it feel like to be a bother to
someone it's just not good so now we're
coming upon something really important
okay mm-hm so a lot of times we have
difficulty understanding ourselves and
we have difficulty understanding how to
act and I get the sense Jake that when I
sense within you more than anything else
is blindness and I don't know if it's
just cuz it's dark where you are but
like this the way that you are framing
your problem is like like you're blind
like you sleep you can feel something is
there you can feel that there's a
problem but you just can't see them
look I just that's not right but I don't
know in what way it's right like I know
it's not right but I just can't see it
and you say you feel that way about a
lot of things in your life yeah yeah I
think so it's not until it's not until
it comes to like a head or I've come
past the problem that I realize like oh
that's what the issue was great right so
now earlier I don't know if you caught
the questions that I answered at the
beginning of scream did you catch those
some of them yeah I didn't catch the
last one okay so I was establishing a
theme or at least I thought I was let's
see if you were twitch at can remember
what that theme was like what's the
what's the theme turn on your monitor
Jake not flow state not intuition
incorrect incorrect incorrect nope okay
so I guess I was nothing he go big takes
responsibility toilet awareness I love
to shed so much no no no boredom okay
what did I say about boredom one person
got it what was I saying about bored you
catch that one yeah the reason
well I think like specifically was that
the reason you play games is because
you're just bored and and yeah so here's
the thing right so like remember I was
I'll just lay it out too far of a
connection not not twitch a stats vault
because I know you guys understand that
you guys understand a lot so it's it's
my fault for not asking not laying
enough of a foundation so like what do
we see when we when when I talk to you
Jake you say like I just saw another
lightbulb and you're like oh like
blindness is actually I would feel about
a lot of things in my life right mm-hmm
so what this tells me is that much like
like it's not that books are boring or
you know school is boring or things like
that it's that you yourself are boring
know your dopamine your dopamine
circuits are exhausted so you're just
not going to enjoy things right there's
like a personal component to the way
that you interact with the world and
what I'm hearing from you is that
there's a personal component like the
reason like you have a blindness debuff
and so there are a lot of things in your
life which you can sense that something
is wrong but like it's you who is unable
to see that that's not a situation
specific does that make sense
mm-hmm and and so and I think part of
that blindness is that you have very and
it's not your fault this is completely
normal
you seem to be a little bit Alexa thymic
and what I what alexithymia is is
inability to determine what your
internal emotional status so when I ask
you what is it like you say use words
like it sucks
that's bad right there's no there's no
color it's like you know the direction
of the feeling is generally negative you
don't know if it's shame you don't know
if it's anger you don't know if it's
fear like those are wildly different
emotions and it's really hard like if I
were to tell you Jake I'm gonna ask you
to do something I'm gonna ask you to go
on stream and talk about your feelings
in your relationships and I think that's
gonna be scary for some people if I tell
you that fear is the emotion that you're
dealing with what do you think that does
with your ability to deal with that
emotion to deal with it yeah if I tell
you you're gonna do something I think
it's gonna be scary for you what do you
think your chances of success are
low area probably why cuz I'm oh I'm
supposed to be scared and I'll be scared
right okay so that's a good point right
so it could engender it could and gender
like some amount of like a
self-fulfilling prophecy is kind of what
you're saying that if you expect to be
scared you're gonna be scared now if I
say Jake I'm gonna have you do this
experience and it's gonna be bad and
it's gonna suck like your capacity to
deal with that how does that relate to
if I say it's gonna be scary um I'm not
sure I guess I'll just be waiting and
expecting it to be bad just waiting for
it to get bad okay so I think that
that's a completely fair and reasonable
answer my hope is that if you know what
you're dealing with your capacity to
deal with it will potentially increase
that's my hope so you have a good point
in terms of this there could be a
self-fulfilling prophecy that if you
expect fear you're gonna have fear at
the same time I think your problem and I
have faith in gamers that generally
speaking your problem is like a lack of
diagnosis it's not a lack of solutions
like I think you're a smart enough guy
to be able to figure out what to do if
you know what the problem is the problem
is that you don't know what the problem
is the problem is you're kind of saying
like okay there's the symptom which is
like my dad and I are not connecting and
our house seems separate and I ask you
how does that feel feel you say it sucks
right mm-hmm so like all kinds of
emotions there so like you know there's
a lot about losing your mom I'm sure and
that you felt connected to her and she
probably was like available to you in a
way let me know if I'm on the right
track or off the right track but we're
just gonna fast forward a little bit
because I think I've got a sense of
something she made you feel like when
you needed something you weren't a
burden yeah right and so like you could
feel you didn't feel alone because you
felt this connection with her and you
know you're 21 you know you're not fully
grown and all that kind of stuff and
like she had an open door for you she
never made you feel like a bother
when
needed something from her mm-hmm
yeah and now that's missing from your
life and then you go to your dad and
then he makes you feel like a burden
right like he makes you feel like you're
like bothering and he's got like better
stuff to do and then like if a kid feels
like they're a burden what are they
gonna do like stop stop bothering
someone yeah exact which is right which
is what I do yeah I just come in my room
and I HAP's absolutely right mm-hmm and
so are you how do we understand that is
that like like what's motivating you to
go to your room it's important I mean
instead of talking to your dad oh I
don't want to but like I just don't want
to bother yeah you don't want to bother
him so is that is that like fear or
shame that's keeping you in your room is
shame probably okay now here's the other
thing is there compassion or love
driving you to your room like I love him
so I don't want to bother him absolutely
what do you think is there a concern
yeah yeah there absolutely is weird huh
yeah really weird we don't think of love
is an emotion that keeps us away from
other people especially our family
members but it's absolutely there and
that's why you can't it's such it's such
a bizarre concept you care about your
dad you don't want to inconvenience him
you don't want to be a burden for him
and it's because if I don't care about
someone who the [ __ ] cares if I burn in
them true yeah right yeah it's like if I
go to Mickey D's and I get like some
chicken nuggets like I don't care that
y'all are busy I want my chicken nuggets
I don't care how busy you are I'm here
for my chicken nuggets true yeah but
when you need something from your dad
when you're hungry for something you go
to him and you actually like care about
him
and the the the bizarre thing is that
your love for him actually like drives
you away yeah because you put him yeah
go ahead
well like a things I've told to other
people are like he's he's he's an adult
or whatever he can do whatever he wants
I'm not getting into getting it in his
way like especially when he's like back
dating and stuff people ask me how I
feel about it it's like he can do
whatever he wants he's okay grandpa
there's oh okay a lot of here
a lot here okay so the first thing is
how does it make you feel that he's
dating other people he can do it he can
do that okay whatever so let's define
things he can do what he wants to Jake
and I don't mean to sound condescending
I just think this is I just can't help
myself
and you see no you have this so fight
you can tell me to go I think is cool f
off at any point okay if I asked you if
I asked like if I could take a
ten-year-old kid and I asked them what
are the different feelings a human can
feel I don't think one of the answers
I'm gonna get is he can do whatever he
wants
that is not feeling yeah so when I ask
you a question how does it make you feel
and your responses he can do it or
that's not a feeling that's your
blindness that's the blindness debuff
what is the feeling respect no oh so
that's so okay that's a beautiful answer
let's so let's understand what Jake did
Jake did something very very special
there he reverse engineered the feeling
based on his words he said someone who
says you can do whatever you want to is
someone who feels respect for another
person that's how you got to that
feeling it's not actually what you feel
does that make sense
sure because you were like that's me
respecting my dad
right when you say that that's you
respecting your dad yeah I think so
okay so respect and telling encouraging
the independence of another human being
or those positive feelings or negative
feelings absolutely
so I'm gonna ask you a question and I
want you to just give me a direction
when I ask you Jake how do you feel
about your dad dating other people is
the emotion that you feel in here
positive or negative its negative that's
not [ __ ] respect you know right
mm-hmm
so very good
good job it starts with directions it's
a good or is it that it's a bad feeling
because that's a defensive statement I
think this you're gonna be able to
understand because you're very good
analytically he can do whatever he wants
to is a defensive statement from you
it's something that you're saying to
protect yeah tell us yeah explain it
tell us what you just figure that so I
don't have to reveal how I actually feel
about it I say that so people stop
asking me about how I feel about it
very good yeah so how do you feel about
it not good it scares me I think good
see that's an emotion I'm this is
emotion what scares you about it one of
I feel like well okay I have to describe
a scenario like he was dating a girl a
while back and she was around the house
a lot more than his current girlfriend
and every time I saw her in the house um
I just got really aim like it would make
me angry
that she wasn't here very long and like
one night I couldn't find my keys and
she was in my room helping me and I just
couldn't take it like I had wanted her
out I'm out of the house like I kind of
freaked out yeah man I really made me
angry yeah yeah [ __ ] [ __ ] that [ __ ]
we're trying to help you find your
Gloria oh my god how big all of her
trying to help you with a task how dare
she
out of here [ __ ] we don't need that's
how you felt right so what I said yeah
oh wow yeah so Jake help me how buddy
what the is that what's going on there
man
I think it might come from a place like
she's replacing my mom sure cuz I
especially I she would um she yeah she
cooked us like dinner one time and for
some reason I just wasn't I was mad I
was just like don't I don't want you to
cook me dinner I can cook for myself
blah blah blah you cook at me did it
yeah dare you how dare you do these nice
things how dare you show me kindness oh
[Music]
oh oh all right sometimes I swear to God
discord cannot handle what's going on in
the interview yeah I totally it's like
the servers are like this is too much
this is way too much too much okay so
first of all Jake I want to I just want
to say fantastic job dude you're doing a
fantastic job I've seen more light bulbs
go off in your in your on your face in
the last 30 minutes then it's a good job
so I think that the reason that that's
actually really important is because
it's hard to sometimes face the things
that parts of your mind are actually
shutting down
like they're parts of your mind that are
actually trying to like keep these
things hidden from you and protect you
from them and the weird thing is like
there's some weird like flipping going
on with like positivity and negativity
we're like she's trying to do this nice
stuff for me and you feel like anger and
rage and then you know you say these
respectful nice things about your dad
because you love him and you care about
it but you feel on the inside is like
negative so like what's going on there
okay do you have thoughts or questions
at this point um yeah but can we like
come back around like a continue the
conversation come back okay I just gotta
think about this totally relevant I'm
trying to figure out how to tie this
stuff together to for you in a way that
so I feel like we're halfway there right
okay yeah does that make sense yeah you
don't quite know like we're not clearly
not done yet and you understand
something but like you're still confused
mm-hmm so I'd like to just figure out
how to not have you feel confused but I
don't know how to do that so I just need
a second okay well maybe maybe I can ask
my question yeah before something um so
last year I was I went early in the year
I went to like therapy and stuff and I
talked about this sort of little
therapist and
he had said that it's possible my dad's
just incapable of an emotional
connection and I don't I don't even know
what that means to start like of course
he is like but I just don't know how to
wrap my mind around that I guess yeah so
let's not try to wrap our mind about it
around yeah so Jake how did it how did
it make you feel to hear the therapist
say that your dad was incapable of
emotional connection um I felt defensive
I was like what do you mean like I
actively argued with him about it I
think I was like what do you mean like
he loves my mom obviously they had a
really good relationship he's done a lot
of things for us bobbling yeah
so I think that was an appropriate thing
because that sounds so I wasn't there
that therapist knows way more about your
situation so big caveats but I think
that's stupid and very probably could've
been yeah and I think the reason you
rebelled against it is because so here's
what I found in therapy when I say
something to someone this isn't therapy
by the way but just general bit okay so
like because case in point you know I'm
saying things to you that actually makes
sense
and therapist apparently do the opposite
okay so this is what I found when you
say something to someone like you're the
expert right like I'm actually not the
expert like this has to be very clearly
understood it's my job to say things to
you and for you to tell me yes you're
right or no you're wrong and like what
do like I can come up with some
complicated like formulation and that's
what therapy is about is like coming up
with these like really complicated
individualized formulations this is not
that this is just talking about a
snapshot of who you are what you
experienced in 30 minutes what can we
understand about you it's not about
fixing anything it's just about what can
we see within you
and I think the reason you rebelled
against it is first of all so the two
reasons you could repel one is because
you can't live up to the concept you
can't accept the consequence of what
that means for you which is that you
lost one parent and you're gonna lose
another one
basically emotionally so it's possible
that that's going on but my sense is
that you've probably recognized that
he's capable of emotion and that it's
just wrong and like the thing that
infuriates me the most is like when when
you respond in a negative fashion
towards that statement the therapist is
probably thinking that's a defense
mechanism on your part and that they're
they're gonna be more convinced that
they're right but like it infuriates me
okay yeah like one of the things that I
dislike the most about therapy and sorry
I'm gonna get off on my soapbox for a
second is that there's no such thing as
a falsifiable hypothesis a therapist can
never be wrong if they're if you
disagree with them that's just denial
and they're right and if you agree with
them will they're right and then they
can always dig for what's underneath
what's underneath what's underneath
what's underneath like there's no bottom
of the pit it's just an endless pit of
hypotheses until they find something
that's right or you leave because
they're not helping you and then they're
like yeah he just couldn't handle it
once you do and just couldn't and
there's just no like it so that bothers
me personally about therapy like that's
why part of the reason I don't like
doing it because there's no way to know
when you're wrong like you can't prove a
therapist wrong anyway so Brant is over
so let's kind of come back to you okay
I'm gonna have to think for a second
again okay
okay so we can go in one of two
directions we've got about half an hour
left or maybe a little less so one is I
can try to tell you how to face your
actual situation in the house and
actually make a change in the way that
you interact with your dad and your
brother or we can talk about what's
going on inside you I don't think it's
gonna be easy to do both both of them
involves both of it but like what do you
want at the end of the next thirty
minutes do you want to understand
yourself better or do you want something
of a game plan to like go in to your
family situation I want to understand
myself better okay okay what
pisses okay so let's talk about why you
get pissed off when people that you're
your dad date try to okay so then this
is our goal I'm gonna try to map as many
emotions as we can in 25 minutes they
are going to decide okay and the goal
here is once you see the emotions you
don't want them to hold power over you
the way that they do mm-hm and by power
over you this is what happens she comes
into your room and and starts to help
you look for things and then something
weird happens inside you
some like coiled serpent Rises and takes
control of your mind and then you tell
her to get the hell out of your room and
you as a human being don't want to do
that right can we like do you want to do
that or you know yeah I I I think I
apologize to her later on it wasn't
personal against you yeah yeah so like
like you don't want that thing to
control your life we're not saying it's
bad we're not saying it's evil we want
you to be in the driver's seat you're
piloting a mech and you have a keyboard
and a mouse and like you control the
character it doesn't control itself
right that's what we want so and then
you came up with this beautiful once
again canned answer of oh I didn't want
her to replace my mom I don't think
that's what it was
does it feel like you were afraid of her
replacing your mom no okay good
so let's start there right that's
[ __ ] [ __ ] answer and it's the
kind of thing that oh my god therapist
loved it oh I was afraid of him
replacing his mother it's a deep
psychological conflict they just eat
that they take a big-ass spoon and they
stick it in that bowl of oatmeal and
cereal or whatever pudding like and they
just like scooping that it's [ __ ]
yeah okay you want me to just lay it on
here you want me to walk you to it lay
it on me
yeah well see jealousy I think you're
jealous
cuz they get to spend time with my dad
and I don't there you go how does that
feel it feels correct right because
you're a you're a what when it comes to
your dad what are you when it comes to
your dad his son
yeah and how does he how does he make
you feel when you want is time
oh well burden yeah and what is she not
apparently absolutely how do you here
how's that set it's frustrating I think
yeah
tart right mm-hmm and like you know what
makes it like so this is the other thing
is jealousy is it the root but then like
you know what really pisses you off is
that you're jealous of someone who's
actually a nice person that you have
negative feelings towards someone who
actually doesn't deserve it yeah I think
that's wrapped up in there what do you
think yeah I agree
um like I when she was in my room
looking through my stuff I ate it was
just very uncomfortable I didn't want
her there I was really angry and oh it
was like keep people you just said I had
it tight in my head but I can't so
there's the jealousy right because she
your dad makes time yeah yeah she was
being a nice person and I was over here
being angry at her for no reason
in my head it felt like no reason I
guess yeah yeah exactly right because
it's not fair to her and you're a decent
guy yeah that's the root of your
problems is that this isn't this isn't a
story of shame and fear this is a story
of caring about your dad not wanting to
burden him trying to make his life
easier and blaming yourself for feeling
jealous of someone who was nice and you
knew that that wasn't right and you beat
yourself up for it and that's what
caused you to blow through the roof it's
because you knew that what you felt
wasn't right and that what you were
doing wasn't right and you're in
capability to control yourself is what
really like sends things over the
over-the-top yeah how are we doing good
it's like it's like the I see the
blindness
thing here especially what do you mean
by that like I was just I felt that
those emotions were not fair to her
I couldn't understand understand why I
was feeling that way yeah yeah I
couldn't see you know and so here's the
thing so now we're gonna tie things back
okay so there's there's the interaction
with her but the interaction with her is
tied to the relationship with your dad
those are if the relationship with your
dad was different this interaction with
her would never happen does that make
sense yeah so let's just like let's try
to tie things back very cleanly okay so
she's helping you out she's a decent
person and at the beginning of this you
feel actually we're gonna start at the
end so you feel frustrated with yourself
for being angry at someone who is
clearly nice and the reason that you're
so you there's frustration with yourself
or anger towards yourself that's one
emotion another emotion is anger with
her now why are you angry with her we've
already talked about it I'm just right
because she gets to spend time with my
dad there you go see beautifully said
right it's not even gentle it's she gets
to spend time with my dad and I do not
do you guys see you guys see the
simplicity and truth of that statement
that's the core of it jealousy even that
is like too much of a psychologically BS
term she gets to spend time with my dad
my dad wants to spend time with her he
carves out time in his day to spend time
with her and he does not do that for me
yeah it doesn't seem like you wants to
spend time with me yeah that's the next
thing right it doesn't seem like he
wants to spend time with me beautifully
said simple clear and that makes you
feel like what
angry again I don't know angry yeah yeah
angry at who um my dad's girlfriend and
well I guess kind of my dad there right
so we got to go deeper buddy mm-hmm so
now we're going back so you feel angry
with your dad yeah I feel like I
definitely feel like I've made attempts
to spend time with him and connect and
he just doesn't like see that I'm doing
that or he ignores it I don't know what
he's doing you know how does that make
you feel worse even more angry
yeah yeah right so it's tough so your
problem is not one of isolation or
disconnection your problem is one of
anger mm-hmm among guys thanks well we
did like like some personality test and
I got a 17 in anger I was the highest of
all the mods and stuff yeah
so you're upset with your dad right yeah
and now here's the really really crazy
and devastating thing for you to feel a
different way how does that how we bring
you to peace what has to happen for you
to be at peace Jake I just stopped being
angry at my dad I
I guess understand why he's not spending
time with me incorrect that is the sort
of right answer but this is I'm gonna
just say this very bluntly you have to
understand that this is not all on you
any answer to that question that begins
with the word I is incomplete
this must be clearly understood do you
get that yeah you're nodding what do I
mean because I feel like I'm being made
we have to understand why yes he must
take responsibility for your feelings he
must take responsibility for his role in
your relationship and the sad thing the
sad bitter truth that I have to tell you
Jake is that personal growth is a shitty
second hand answer to your situation and
I know that I advocate for personal
growth and you're doing a wonderful job
because you're a member of our community
and you've clearly paid attention and
you're growing and you're learning but
the first thing that you have to
understand is that there is a share of
this that Falls Stan mmm-hmm and I would
be as far as to say so this is also
something that therapists don't do they
don't assign blame I think he's doing a
bad job now is it excusable possibly is
he grieving absolutely should we be
compassionate absolutely so you've heard
me talk about Dharma yeah yeah so I
don't think he's doing his Dharma and
this is where like you have trouble
blaming him and holding him accountable
because you love him
because you understand grief and because
you care about it mm-hmm you're doing a
couple of very devastating and subtle
things the first is giving people an
excuse for not treating you the right
way and we do those two people that we
love there's a big difference between
saying you shouldn't have treated me
this way and I forgive you for it
and it's okay to treat me this way
because you are grieving too do you
understand the difference between those
two statements yeah yeah I think so yeah
help me understand what the differences
um because in one scenario who keep
continuing to treat me this way yes
there's a difference I'll say them again
just be okay no you won't be okay with
it right yeah but I'll let it happen so
one of them is there's a difference
between admitting that someone treated
you wrong and forgiving them for it
right for you to say to your dad
I lost my parent and in that moment in
in 2018 I felt like I lost both of you
and because that's how you feel like you
lost yeah that hurt a lot on your little
bit yeah yeah
body blow okay yeah okay just take a
minute no I'm good I can don't move away
from the feelings don't gloss over we're
not gonna we're not gonna keep going
just close your eyes I've already done
I'm gonna hurt he done it yeah you did
it so fast so try to go back there it
was a moment where you moved your hand
in front of your face that was the
moment where that came out what was the
feeling there was both it's just sad I
guess
yeah really sad
yeah man you think yeah so this is what
I'm saying buddy whose fault is it that
you lost two parents in 2018 I don't
know well for one of them we don't I
mean I don't know what happened to your
mom but like you know your dad has a
hand in that right we could blame cancer
I guess I don't
yeah so you could blame cancer for your
mom who do you blame for losing your
other parent my dad absolutely so this
is what I mean so there's a difference
between blaming someone and forgiving
them and making excuses for their
behavior and I'm not saying that the
excuses are not fair I think they're
reasonable and justifiable I think his
behavior is understandable and expected
and therefore he deserves your
forgiveness but that I cannot stress
this enough if you want peace of mind
you must admit a wrong and then forgive
not excuse the behavior huge difference
night and day one will lead to the
situation that you're in now which is
you make excuses you cover for him you
love him you feel like a burden you care
about him and you are tortured inside
you're being eaten alive mm-hmm it'll
keep things smooth day to day the
motions that are positive because you
love him and so you just take all of
that anger and that hurt and you just
stick it in there you just stick it way
down I take it out on my league
teammates is where I put it
okay take it on your league teammates
these [ __ ] who are cooking you food
and helping you find things right mm-hmm
so if you want peace with your father
first of all he's got to step up
right and you can ask him you can help
him to do that because he may be
struggling too so like I think you know
he has a Dharma in this situation
because he's the parent you're the child
so I think more of it falls in my mind
this is my black and white way of
thinking and this is not you know in
therapy no one gets blamed for anything
but I think he's not doing his thurman
which does he have it excuse for
absolution we'd be compassionate
absolutely but is he stepping up no he
needs to be twice as present he's got to
make up for two parents mm-hmm right
that's his Dharma that's his Karma is it
fair to him absolutely not but his life
does not and this is something that I
want everyone understand as well
fairness has nothing to do with whether
you do or not is it fair to him
absolutely not he lost his wife he lost
the glue to the family he lost the way
that he connected to his sons so is
there compassionate AB absolutely should
there be forgiveness I certainly hope so
does his does he deserve to suffer
absolutely not
does it suck for him absolutely and he's
still not doing his Dharma and oddly
enough I think your road forward
involves blame right you've got it you
you're never gonna heal unless you
assign what is yours and you assign what
is it it's like if you need if you're
fighting a boss and you have like a
healer and you're playing a tank and the
healer is an NPC and the healer never
heals you like it's not your fault that
you died but you take everything on
yourself yeah it's just it's just not
gonna work right and so then the other
thing that you've got to do is is just
think about you know how you approach
him and understand that part of the
reason that you retreat so easily to
your room is because all this crap in in
you like that you love him that you care
about him that you don't want to blame
him but you do blame him you do blame
him and that blame is killing you it's
eating you alive
because he lost his wife - mmhmm yeah I
really does hurt my god what hurts
like blaming him because because I do
try to like cover for him and I help
help him and I wish him the best but
like I I guess I not until right now I
haven't admitted that he I am blaming
him Yeah right so now we see a pattern
within you that you blame yourself for
the way that you feel go ahead you
finish it I'm angry with myself because
I blame him for not doing his Dharma and
and who else have you been angry with
his ex his ex-girlfriend absence because
of your feelings towards them you blame
yourself for your feelings so that's
gotta suck right okay thoughts questions
um I'm just thinking about other aspects
of my life where I blame myself for
feeling the way I did oh yeah you know
when you said earlier so now that's the
beautiful statement so I think now we're
weird a good closing point he said I'm
blind in many areas of my life I would
suspect I would put money that that
blindness is this thing that the thing
that you blind yourself most to is
judging yourself for the way that you
react to situations yeah that you think
are unfair and make you a bad person I
think that's true yeah there we go
nice buff cleanse okay so let's talk you
have thoughts questions I'm not just
thoughts I guess was really cool to do
this I really appreciate you taking the
time you're very welcome and I really
appreciate you coming on cuz I think I
think twitch chat i think twitch chat
feels the same way right so these are
common things right we're good people
and life gives us negative feelings
because sometimes the ones that we love
don't do things that are nice to us
that's just like like that's not that
uncommon and because we love them it's
bizarre like what's driving you so now
you understand so now let's talk about
behavioral change for a second how can
you change things the first is that when
you go into your room understand that
some of it is feeling like a burden and
feels bad man but some of the reason
that you're retreating is out of love
because you care about him and you
recognize he's hurting too and if he
needs solace with like another woman and
like wants to move past your mom and
stuff like that day you actually don't
blame him for that and he can't do that
it takes like he still owes you guys
something right it's not fair for him to
do that at your expense hmm if he makes
himself unavailable because he's dating
women like that's not right and if you
don't have control over that but you
should know what is right and what is
not in your mind to attain peace of mind
because if you if you kind of point this
out to him in I don't that's hard right
okay so you don't just go to him and say
this is what's going on cuz he's not
gonna understand so just show them the
volume yeah yeah I mean you could
showing you the vaad may not be a bad
idea but but I think it starts with a
conversation yeah you have any idea like
I mean I can share a couple of thoughts
but you have any idea like how to start
that conversation I think I've tried to
start that conversation but at the time
I just I wasn't sure what the issue
really was excellent I mean not next
yeah do this thing you know what I mean
right that I've realized that yes yes
yeah yeah and it's excellent that you
realize that you couldn't have the
conversation because you couldn't see
yeah so so what do you think are the key
points of the first conversation I think
I need to make it clear that we both
have a responsibility to each other
and we both like to have two equally put
in to this relationship if we have to I
feel like he's not putting in enough
okay
I would say that's actually the goal of
the conversation that's not where you
start I would start by saying I feel
like since mom passed away we haven't
been a family and she was I've said that
to him before and what does he said he
just kind of like he like passively
agrees and then I and then I like I try
to articulate how I feel about the whole
scenario and I just couldn't like okay
and basically we just and the
conversation I do it every year so I
would I would start with I would think
about the first emotion maybe sharing
with him is that you feel like a burden
asking him for his time mm-hmm because
if he passively agrees like you wanna
yeah I think it's I think it's gonna be
tough so ideally what you guys I think
this is a prime case for something like
family counseling by the way so I think
if you guys have access to something
like a family therapist this is exactly
what you should do we uh did the back
when my mom was around a long time ago
okay so so you could just concretely ask
your dad you know you can talk to your
brother and your dad saying like hey I
think this is important would you be
willing to do it so if he's a passive
agree er then what you have to do is
modify the way that you talked to him by
making things concrete asks mm-hmm and
you can say like I don't want to burden
you but I do feel like this is important
for our relationship
our health and I feel like we're
drifting apart and in the past you sort
of agreed with that but I think we need
to take some kind of concrete steps to
stay together mm-hmm is this important
to you
yes very yeah you asked him that oh yeah
yeah okay right and then you prepare
yourself for the response mm-hmm
and the response may not be if it's
maybe some kind of lukewarm yeah and
like then that [ __ ] sucks for you I
don't even know what that emotion is
like yeah but I mean probably some kind
of really bad disappointment and stuff
like that and then you know at some
point you have to you can't make someone
do their time right but I would be
pretty concrete with him because it
sounds like a lot of stuff is like
unsaid and ambiguous like you would be
surprised like he may feel like you need
space and that he may have recognized
that you value your independence so he
may actually think that he's doing you a
favor by like not interfering with your
life and stuff like that
yeah but I would kind of start with you
know having a conversation with sort of
shape sharing that you feel like
sometimes asking your first time is a
burden and then you want to be spending
more time together and I think you have
the tiger moth I've gone I've asked him
to spend like I've in conversations in
the past about spending more time
together and he all ever every single
time the answer I get is like we just
don't have that much in common
know how to deal with that cuz like I
mean I mean we we do I think that he
just I think he thinks I just enjoy
playing video games and that's like it
I'm like I so that's tough
yeah so here's I don't have a okay no no
no I think this is important because at
the end of the day you know we're about
actually changing people's lives not
doing therapy so so if he says something
like that I think you've got to ask him
how important do you think it is for a
father and son to share interests in
order to spend time together do you
think the important thing like when I
just asked him that yeah because it's
not like I mean I shared very few
interests with my dad but we still hung
out yeah I don't think it's very
important
yeah and so you can say like yeah I
agree that we don't share interests and
I still want to spend time with you
because you're my father
or you can say that you know agree to
the statement what do you think are you
interested and if you really want to go
hard this is probably damaging but if
you feel like you want a little little
of the [ __ ] out you can say do you
think having a son who doesn't share
your interests is worth spending time
with right because that's actually what
he's saying
[Music]
like if you I mean you have a lot of
different golf clubs in your golf cart
right hmm hard to put it I tend to pick
the driver and just send it home yes
time right so like you're a sawed-off
shotgun kind of guy mm-hmm and and so
like sometimes like that's something
like it's like a sniper rifle like high
penetration but like to the point it's
not you're not like it's not spraying
prey so you know you know I think you've
got to decide like what feels right in
the moment or you can say like dad I
don't have to be blunt like I know we
don't share a lot of interests but I
think we share more of them than you
think
and I think we've spent so little time
together I don't think you know what my
interests are yeah MMN and see what he
says and then if he continues blocking
and stuff I think unfortunately what
that means for you is that you know he
just may not be ready yet and if he's
not ready yet that that sucks for you
but it sucks for you and you continue
living your life and you make sure that
you don't let that happen to your
brother because you haven't thought
about to him that if your dad doesn't
step up you have to sorry yeah right so
you can also have this conversation with
your brother or you and your brother can
sit down with your dad or whatever but I
definitely I think I spend more time
with my brother than he does yeah so
then you have you have the dharma of
being what for your brother
what roles do you film if your dad
doesn't step up the patriarch yeah so
you're an older brother and what else
are you what roles does your dad have
for you um both parents absolutely if
your dad isn't around what roles do you
have for your brother the role both
parents plus older brother plus older
brother
Oh sick you know three cool right
and is that fair to you absolutely not
everyone's asking about the Padma so now
you guys see it right this is what the
autumn eyes it's not complicated it's
not grandiose it's not saving the world
it's being more than you can possibly be
for one human being mm-hmm I think I'm
them fairly sure yeah good so maybe a
good place to stop for the day what do
you think yeah I agree you want to do
some meditation sure what does the
doctor recommend Shadow blind for four
for the best mods for supporting me and
loaf and Moses and kami I can't forget
kami and never you guys are the best I
want also wanted to say that Moses isn't
just picking mods I signed up to do this
a long time ago yeah dude you're the
first mod that's come on so I think
we're yeah they're about you're not
having nepotism but let me just think
shut up Caden - I'm trying to decide so
I feel like um I feel like you need
strength okay because I think the task
that you have ahead of you is not easy
I'm just trying to think about what
practice I can teach you over the
internet that will give you strength and
I can't chant today because I'm gonna
cough but chanting would be a good one
okay so I'm gonna ask you to sit up
straight okay
can you sit cross-legged yeah I was the
whole time yeah okay so sit cross legs
but with your back up straight mm-hmm so
I want you to so just watch me so we're
gonna start by keeping our keep your
hands in front of you like this so make
kind of like in the Mustang and what I
want you to do is you see how my elbow
so oftentimes them a must a looks like
this with elbows in an angle but I want
your elbows to be parallel to the ground
and relax your shoulders right so do you
see my posture so it's it's and then
what do you feel in your hands or do you
kind of feel the pressure from your
elbows I don't know how else to put it
does that make sense so like with this
your wrists are gonna be relaxed but
with this your your wrists are gonna
feel pressure so now what I want you to
do is close your eyes and then just very
slightly so you can relax your elbow
sung and then I want you to just
separate just a tiny tiny amount so
create a tiny gap between your hands
I just saw your eyebrows go up what did
you feel
okay so close your eyes so just focus on
your hands tell me what you feel I feel
the air between them okay good is the
air cool or warm cool okay now I want
you to focus on the inner surfaces of
your palms and see if you can feel heat
yeah I definitely do okay now start to
increase the gap between your hands
spread them apart a little bit and just
that too much in a little bit good so a
little bit more open good right there
right there right there and now I want
you to continue to feel that warmth
between your hands you may feel a slight
tension to pull them together a little
bit more just notice that tension and
then pull apart just a little bit more
and I want you to kind of envision for
lack of a better term a warm space
almost like a box between your hands
does that make sense yeah yes [ __ ] is so
weird so expand a little bit and keep
slowly expanding until you lose the box
it's almost like there's like a conduit
of warmth between your hands this may be
another way to put it does that make
sense
yeah okay I'm not trying to be
suggestible I'm just trying to describe
the weird-ass sensations pull apart
until I like I feel the air again like
this yeah okay so just focus on that a
little bit and now what I want you to do
is try to remember what it feels like to
feel this heat and now I want you to put
your hands like this
open your eyes so this is a mudra and
place this mudra in front of you so like
right above your hips like crotch
basically so rest it
relax your shoulders close your eyes let
the tips of your thumbs touch and then
feel the heat emanating out of your
hands can you feel that conduit kind of
coming out mm-hmm
focus on that sensation and try to sit
as still as possible and just focus on
that energy practice for about 60
seconds now with your eyes closed so I'm
going to say some stuff that doesn't
make any sense okay so I want you to
just focus on that sensation and then
feel your body feel the vibrance of it
feel the vitality and feel the strength
and understand that there is a great
challenge that lies ahead of you that
these emotions will exist within this
body and they will influence your mind
and they will try to get you to do
things the emotions aren't right they're
not wrong all you need to be able to do
is hold all of it together
and that recognize that in this moment
this vessel is capable of holding all of
that and whatever may come that if your
dad drifts away this person can handle
it
that if you need to be your mom your dad
and an older brother for your brother
you were capable of that feel that heat
in that energy in the perfection within
you the purity of your vessel and that
no matter what life throws as long as
you can find this place you can hold you
can handle whatever they throw at you
because you can and now put your palms
together in front of you rub them
together feel the heat the friction cut
them over your eyes take a deep breath
in and exhale slowly open your eyes then
relax your hands how do you feel good
feel good nope
confident good that's what it's for man
does that doesn't make any sense
sometimes like I don't understand how to
explain what I feel like the sensations
like yeah yeah yeah that made sense like
did you understand like that make any
sense about like how you you have a
shitstorm ahead of you but that you're
gonna be able to hit like that thing
that you were like this person can't
handle it person I'm talking to can but
that thing that you were that can handle
it if you don't like I'm paranoid that
people are just nodding their heads like
does that actually make sense cuz it
doesn't make any sense to me when I hear
the words it yes it makes sense okay
great
so this is the challenge challenging
thing about experiences in meditation is
like they're not convey Abul with words
like if you're feeling it you get it and
if you don't understand like if you
don't feel it you're like what the is
this guy talking about like what right
anyway I'm glad so I think you should do
this practice every day you must
cultivate strength my friend you are not
been and then do you do yoga I do not
where do you live I live in Iowa I live
in a town about a thousand people okay
so see if you can somehow learn yoga
start doing yoga if you probably my best
that day yeah yeah I do sometimes
okay so exercise more you need you need
strength buddy like your your body needs
to be pure because like the emotions
that you're dealing with they're just
you can't handle it unless your body's
gonna be optimized it's not gonna grow
for you and if you could see a family
therapist I think this is prime for
family therapy okay I'll bring up thanks
a lot man yeah any last questions or
thoughts before we wrap up for the day
not that I can think of okay awesome
thank you very much I really do
appreciate it thank you chat okay how do
we show our love to Jake okay they're
showing love give me strength buffs
maybe some strength potions yeah man
awesome thank you very much Jake good
luck Joe yep thank you very much thank
you